Greek Gods Stories
A Story About Zeus
Zeus was the god of the sky and ruler of the gods. 
He was once travelling with his son, Hermes. Both men were disguised 
as ordinary men. On their travels, they stopped at many different 
houses asking for shelter and food, but they were refused every time. 
Zeus and his son came to a house belonging to a very poor, elderly 
couple. Baucis and her husband, Philemon, offered the visitors a 
meal and somewhere to rest for the night. As refreshment, the couple 
offered the men their only jug of wine. Later that evening, Baucis noticed that the jug had been 
refilled so she turned to her husband and told him that the men must be gods. 
Zeus punished those who had refused them food and shelter by causing a terrible flood. All the 
homes in the valley were destroyed, except for the hut belonging to Baucis and Philemon. To 
repay their kindness, Zeus transformed their little hut into a temple, where they lived out their 
lives as priestess and priest. As Baucis and Philemon were such a devoted couple, Zeus agreed 
to ensure that they would never be parted. When they died, they turned into oak and linden 
trees. The branches of the trees were entwined.
A Story About Athena and Poseidon
Athena was the strong and wise daughter of Zeus. When she was 
born, she was dressed in armour and carried a shield and sword. 
Poseidon was the god of the seas. He had a beard, long hair, drove a 
golden chariot and carried a trident. Athena and Poseidon 
were rivals. 
The people of a new city wanted a god to look after them and both 
Athena and Poseidon wanted this important role.
To try and impress the citizens, Poseidon gave the city a gift. When he struck his trident into 
the ground, water gushed out. The water became a river, which flowed to the sea. Poseidon told 
the people to build ships so that they could sail to the sea, enabling them to travel anywhere 
and become prosperous and powerful people. The citizens were impressed and began to think 
that Poseidon would be a good protector, then Athena told them to taste the water. The people 
were disgusted by the taste of the saltwater and began to change their minds about Poseidon.
Next, Athena gave the people of the city her gift. She struck the ground with her spear and a 
tree began to grow. Athena told the citizens that it was an olive tree which had many uses. 
Firstly, the wood could be used for building and heating, the olives growing on the tree could 
be eaten and thirdly, the oil from the olives could be used when cooking. The people preferred 
Page 1 of 4

Athena’s gift and they chose her to protect the city. The citizens decided to name the city after 
her, calling it Athens. Poseidon wasn’t happy about the decision, so he caused a terrible flood. 
With the help of Athena, the city became strong and prosperous. Today, it is the 
capital city of Greece.
A Story About Hermes and Apollo
Zeus was Hermes’ father. Hermes was born in a cave and hours 
later, decided he would make himself a toy. He found a tortoise 
shell, tied strings across it and plucked them to make the very first 
music. Hermes had created the first musical instrument, the lyre. 
His beautiful playing made his mother sleepy. Whilst she was 
sleeping, he left the cave and went out to explore the world he had 
been born into. 
Hermes came across a herd of cattle which belonged to Apollo, one of the gods. Hermes liked 
the animals so much that he decided to steal them. He found a hiding place for the cattle, then 
returned to the cave, climbing back into his mother’s arms as if nothing had happened. 
Apollo was furious to see his cattle had been stolen so he began searching for the thief. He 
found Hermes eventually, but was shocked to find that he was only a baby. Apollo wanted his 
cattle back, so Hermes began playing the lyre. Apollo was completely enchanted by the music 
and let Hermes keep the cattle, in exchange for the instrument. From this moment onwards, 
Apollo carried the lyre with him.
Throughout his life, Hermes continued to be mischievous. He wore a winged hat and sandals 
which meant he could travel quickly. This helped him to send messages between the gods and 
the mortals.
Stories about Ares
Ares was the god of war. He carried a shield and wore armour. 
Ares wasn’t loyal in battle and during the Trojan War, he promised 
his mother that he would help the Greeks. However, Ares was in love 
with Aphrodite and she easily persuaded him to help the Trojans 
instead.
He never fought with fellow gods, so he challenged a Greek mortal 
named Diomedes. Diomedes wounded Ares and even though the 
wound wasn’t serious, he ran crying to his father, Zeus. His father bandaged the wound for 
him, but he wasn’t proud of his so-called warrior son.
Page 2 of 4

A Story About Aphrodite
Aphrodite, the goddess of love, was very beautiful. She once started a 
war without meaning to.
The goddess Eris enjoyed being a trouble maker, so she made a golden 
apple. On the apple, she wrote the words, ‘For the fairest’, then left it 
where she knew the goddesses Hera, Aphrodite and Athena would find 
it. Each one of them believed that she was the fairest goddess, so they 
chose a mortal named Paris to decide who should own the apple. 
Each goddess tried to impress Paris with a gift. Athena said she would turn him into a courageous 
and successful soldier, Hera promised to make him very powerful and Aphrodite offered him the 
love of the most beautiful woman in the world. Paris chose Aphrodite, which played perfectly 
into Eris’ hands.
The most beautiful woman in the world was Helen, who was married to the king of Sparta. 
When Helen and Paris ran away to Troy, the king was angry. He sent his soldiers to declare 
war on Troy and as a consequence, the Trojan War lasted for ten years. 
A Story About Hades
Hades, Zeus and Poseidon were brothers. 
Hades ruled the world of the dead, also known as the Underworld. 
He had a chariot which was drawn by four black horses. Hades was 
responsible for making sure the dead stayed in the Underworld for 
all time. Rather unusually, Orpheus, who was a wonderful singer, 
returned from the Underworld. When his wife died, he travelled to 
the Underworld to get her back. Orpheus’ singing enchanted Hades 
so much that he agreed to let him have his wife back, but on one 
condition; Orpheus wasn’t allowed to look at his wife as they left the Underworld.  However, 
as they were leaving, Orpheus looked behind him to check his wife was following, meaning she 
had to stay in the Underworld forever.
A Story About Hephaestus
Hephaestus was Hera’s son, but she wasn’t a good mother to him. 
When he grew older, Hephaestus decided to take revenge on her, 
so he created a golden throne to send to his mother. Hera thought 
the gift was wonderful and immediately sat down. All of a sudden, 
unbreakable chains tied her up and she couldn’t be freed. The gods 
realised that the only person who could free Hera was her son. 
The gods asked Dionysus, the god of wine, to intoxicate Hephaestus. 
Having drunk plenty, Hephaestus was led to Mount Olympus to free 
Hera, which he did. In return, the gods gave him Aphrodite, who was to be his wife.
Page 3 of 4

A Story About Artemis
Artemis was Apollo’s twin sister. She was goddess of hunting and 
the moon. She hunted in the forests with a bow and arrow. Artemis 
was also smart, and a very good fighter.
The river god, Alpheus, fell in love with Artemis and chased her 
through the forest. Artemis covered her face in mud, as did her 
nymphs (female followers). Alpheus couldn’t tell Artemis apart from 
the nymphs, so he gave up his search for her.
A Story About Hestia
Hestia was the oldest of the gods of Olympus. She was also very 
beautiful. The other gods had duties, but for some time, nobody 
knew what Hestia could be responsible for.
Apollo and Poseidon once announced to Zeus that they both loved 
Hestia, and that he must choose the best husband for her. Zeus 
didn’t want the gods fighting between themselves, so he knew this 
had to be resolved. He didn’t have to worry though, because Hestia 
solved the problem herself. She told both men that she would never 
marry. As a token of appreciation, Zeus gave Hestia a key to Olympus and put her in charge of 
making sure the gods had everything they needed, such as food and clothing. Zeus also made 
Hestia the goddess of the home and family.
Hestia wanted a quiet, happy and peaceful life, so when Zeus’ half-son Dionysus went to 
Olympus demanding a throne, Hestia was more than happy to give hers up for him. Being the 
goddess of the home, she was too busy to sit down anyway!
A Story About Demeter
Erysichthon was a very arrogant, selfish and greedy man. In Thessaly, 
there was a huge oak tree dedicated to Demeter, the goddess of 
agriculture. The tree was decorated by the local people and many 
used it as a place to make vows to the goddess.
Erysichthon ordered that his slaves cut the tree down in order to 
make a banqueting table. None of his slaves felt they could do such a 
thing, so Erysichthon did it himself.
During the first hit, Demeter appeared to him as a priest, requesting that he stop what he was 
doing, but Erysichthon continued regardless. Next, Demeter appeared to him in her goddess 
form. She sent away the slaves and punished Erysichthon with a curse. The curse was that 
Erysichthon’s hunger would never be satisfied.
Page 4 of 4

